So now let's create the cross-bars behind here.
I'll create a cube with the cube button in the create tab and for this I would just like to scale it
or stretch it.
So it lines up with the length of our pickets here.
So what I'm going to do is use one of my orthographic views I'll press the three key on the number pad
and that takes me to the right view and that's not the one I want.
How about the one key.
And we go that takes us to the front view and then I'll hit the five key and that will take us into
orthographic view.
Now I can slide this over go to the scale tool and begin just scaling this out until it's about the
right width something like that.
Now if I tumble around like this I can see it.
Notice that even though I'm tumbling in 3D view here I'm still in the orthographic view.
I need to press the five key to get back to perspective.
So if this is going to be the horizontal brace at the back of the picket fence it's a little bit thick.
Now what I need to do is scale it.
But the problem is is fine.
If I just hit the s key and scale it down like that it would scale in all the axes I'm going to press
the right mouse button to get out of that what I want to do is scale in the Y and Z and keep the x axis
the same so it maintains the width to do that.
I can press the shift key and click on the access that I do not want to scale and drag.
Now I can scale in the Y and Z without scaling in the X so I'll make it about like that and I'll also
scale it now in the Y.
So it's a little bit flatter like that every go so I'll go to the move tool and let's put that in place.
Now I think I want this side to be the front so I'll move it to the back and move it up into place
and we go.
So now I can take that and duplicate it.
Shift the click and drag up with my move manipulator.
And there we go.
So now we have a picket fence with our two horizontal braces.
The last thing I need is a post here that will go between each of the fence segments.
Now I'd like to create this object in the center of the grid because I think it's more convenient and
easier to work with if I do.
So I'm going to select this whole piece to select these by chefs selecting them and I'm going to combine
them all into one object so I can move it aside so to combine or join objects together I'm going to
press control J.
And there we go.
Now I'll just take that one object and move it to the side here.
I'll de-select it with the key.
And now let's create another cube here.
And for this I think I'm going to scale it down so it's a little bit smaller.
Something like that I'll move it up to sit on the grid here.
And now I want to take this and raise it up so it's a little bit taller than the fence segment.
We've already created to do that.
I'm just going to go into edit mode by hitting the tab key all press control tab and select face and
then I'll just like this top face and drag it straight up something like that so this will be our post
that the fence will connect to.
Maybe I want it to be about this tall here.
All right I'll tab back into object mode.
I'll take this fence segment and bring it over so it's a little bit tighter against that.
And the last thing I want to do is create a couple of little ornamental pieces on the top here.
Something to click on the cube button in the create tab.
Move that up and I'm going to frame it up with the period key on the numpad and then I think what I
want to do is scale it.
So it's a little bit flatter
maybe scale it up so it's a little bit bigger
and for this I'm just going to tab into Edit Mode go to face mode select that face and I'm just going
to scale this down like this just a little ornamental piece that's all.
And then I'll just duplicate this shifty and click switch to my move manipulator and move this up and
then scale this down a bit like this just place that all on the top.
So there we go it's just a little ornamental piece and move that down.
So it sits right there.
All right.
So since I've got some beveling on these I think I better make a few bevels on this one as well.
All selected.
And once again I'll press the end key to bring up the properties panel and I'll make sure that my scale
is all uniform.
So I press control a and click scale and now come into edit mode with the tab key press control tab
and go to edge.
Now just select these edges all the way around and then press control and bevel and maybe if I give
it just a little bit like that
and let's see about these pieces as well they should probably be all one object so I'll select both
of them and press control J.
And now I'll apply the scale again control a and if I tap into edit mode I can select the edges I'd
like to bevel an.
Really it's just about all of them I think.
Let me try.
Just select all of the edges and then press control me and devil and let's see what happens.
Yeah.
Why not.
There we go.
Now we have it all bevelled all right we have a picket fence segment here so I'll press the end key
to get out of the properties panel and what I'd like to do is combine all of these objects into one.
So I want to press the A key to select everything press control.
Jay and there we are.
I'll call this fence segment one.
Now before I begin using the array modifier to duplicate this I'd like to take this pivot point and
move it right down to the bottom of that post.
Currently the 3D cursor is just about where I want that pivot point to be so I'll go ahead and snap
it to the 3D cursor.
I'll come over here to the tools tab go to set origin and I want to set the origin to the 3D cursor
and there it is.
So now what we can do is use the array modifier once again to begin creating a fence around say a yard
or something.
So I click add a modifier click array and there we have our new fence segment.
And what I can do is just begin increasing the count and there it goes.
So I create maybe four of these now to create the rest of our little yard here.
I'm going to go to the top view by pressing the seven key on the number pad and then I'm going press
the five key and that'll take us to the orthographic view for the top camera.
And what I want to do is I'm going to duplicate this whole piece by using shifty and then I'm going
to right click to put it back to where it originally was and I'm going to drag this out to the end of
my original fence segment.
Now I want to rotate this 90 degrees so what I can do is I can press R and I can tell it I want to rotate
around the z axis and I want it to rotate 90 degrees.
And there it is.
So I'll do that again.
I'm going to press shift D and click drag it up here put it just at the end of this piece press R Z
9 0 and click and then one more time shift d click drag to the end of this segment.
RC 9 0 and enter and then we have our fence around the yard.
So one of the things to remember about 3D modeling is that everything is made up every complex object
is made up of basic shapes basic components.
So if you can take a look at that complex object and begin to break it down to its component shapes
you can then begin building each of those parts and putting together the object from its basic components.